So let's add our first option.
Let's have simple one. So
let's add the footer text, this one. And let's actually remove this long widget.
So to add a setting we will use a method in the wp_customize class called add_setting().
So let's do that let's go to the customize.php.
And then let's use $wp_customize class and the add_setting() method.
And then the first argument is an ID for this setting.
So this also should be prefixed
and let's call it "site_info". And the second argument is an array of options for this setting.
So if you took a look here you can read about all the different options that you can put here.
So we have the type. It could be "theme_mod" or "option". And you can read about the difference here.
But to summarize the difference is option can be used regardless what the currently active theme is.
However theme_mod is only used by the current active theme. So usually we will use see theme_mod and the
option is meant to be used by plugins more than themes. And theme_mod is the default option so we won't have
to add it every time.
And we have some others as well but let's just start by the important ones first which is the "default"
value.
So this is the default value for this field and in our case let's set it to an empty string.
And the other important one is "sanitize_callback".
And this should be a function name and this function will run before the value is saved to the database
in order to make sure it's sanitized.
So this will take function and this function could be one of the built in WordPress sanitization functions. So
let's.
So it could be one of these or you can define your own function and put the name there. And we'll do
both cases throughout this section.
But for now let's assume thesite info text will just be a text field.
So we can use "sanitize_text_field". So "sanitize_text_"field".
So now we have our setting. But the setting is useless it has the control to control it.
So let's add a control now for this setting.
So using the same class and a method called add_control().
And the first argument is, should match the idea of the setting.
So let's copy that.
And the second argument is also an array of some options that we can provide to the control.
So the most important one is the "type". And this should be an HTML input type like a text or a number
or select or checkbox. And you can find all the different ones in the link I put in the lecture links.
So in this case we'll need a text field and can also add a "label". Make sure all your labels and any
text is escaped and translated.
So
let's call it "Site Info" and our domain.
And finally takes the "section".
So remember in the last lecture we mentioned that controls exist in sections.
These ones.
So these are the controls and these are sections.
So we need to choose either one of these sections to add our control in or create a new section and
add it in it. So let's start by choosing one of these sections. So if you know the ID for these sections,
we have a table here,
this one. And these are all the core sections that exists in WordPress core and their priority and we'll talk
about the priority in a moment.
And you'll notice that there are some sections that do not appear here. And that's because they exist
in the WordPress core but they don't have any controls.
So if a section does not have any controls it won't appear. The first section which is the Site Identity
is this one.
"Site Title & Tagline".
So let's copy
its ID. And let's put our control in this section. And we have some extra brackets here.
So let's now save and see if our field is added. Let's refresh.
So let's see the Site Identity and we now have a Site Info text field. Great, so let's just remove the
widget again.
I forgot to save it.
Any time you do something you should publish.
So let's now create a new section.
And add our field in.
So we will create a new section called "Footer Settings" or something and then we'll add our section in our control in.
So let's do that.
And similarly we will use a method in the wp_customize class and it's called add_section().
And it takes an ID. So let's call it "footer_options"
"footer_options" and an array.
And here we can define a title for this section.
So escape and translate. And let's call it "Footer Options" and text domain. And we can also have a description.
So could be some text like "You can change footer options from here".
And text domain.
So let's save now and before saving let's just copy the ID that we chose here and put it in the site info
control. And let's now
see.
So we have Footer Options and inside of it we have the Site Info.
So you might be asking how to change the order of these sections.
And the answer is this priority here will determine which section will appear first.
So we have all the default priorities.
So the "Site Title & Tagline" is 20 and the second one which is the "Menus" is 100.
So let's say we want to the Footer Section to be between the 20 and the 100.
So what we can do is add a priority here.
And choose the number like 30.
And now we have it as the second section.
So great we have our option now and we can control it.
So let's now use it in our actual theme. So let's go to the "template-parts/footer/" and the site info
or info.php. And instead of these hard coded texts, let's now fetch the setting from the database
and display it in the footer.
So let's create a variable called $site_info. And to get an option you can use either get_option() or get_theme_mod().
So in our case our setting type is theme_mod so we will use get_theme_mode() and then simply just give it the ID
of the setting.
And the second argument, which is important, which is a default value. And it should match the default
value that we assigned here.
So it's an empty string.
And then take this variable and display it here.
But remember that any value that comes from the database should be escaped. So let's "echo esc_html" and
our value.
So let's see now.
So the default value is an empty string.
And as you can see it displays an empty space here. So let's do like we did with the footer widget. Let's only display
this DIV only if we have a value.
So "if ($site_info)".
So let's refresh. And now we don't have anything here. And let's now add a value.
And now we have it. As you can see it's refreshing the whole iframe just for this part.
So we will tackle this later.
But let's now tackle another problem first which is adding HTML here.
So you're coding sanitize_
tex_field() before saving to the database and that will strip any HTML.
And you're also escaping the value in the actual HTML file.
So if you type any HTML here. So you know it's very common to put a link here.
And if we did so
it won't be a link. It will just be text.
And if we save and refresh. It's actually saved in the database as text.
So let's tackle that in the next lecture.
So we will try to create a custom sanitization function instead sanitize_text_field().
We will create a function that will allow some HTML to pass while removing any other HTML.
So see you in the next lecture.